(a) CBP Technology.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not 
otherwise appropriated, to remain available until September 30, 2029, 
the following:
            (1) $1,076,317,000 for necessary expenses relating to 
        procurement and integration of new non-intrusive inspection 
        equipment and associated civil works, artificial intelligence, 
        integration, and machine learning, as well as other mission 
        support, to combat the entry of illicit narcotics along the 
        southwest, northern, and maritime borders.
            (2) $2,766,000,000 for necessary expenses relating to 
        upgrades and procurement of border surveillance technologies 
        along the southwest, northern, and maritime borders.
            (3) $673,000,000 for necessary expenses, including the 
        deployment of technology, relating to the biometric entry and 
        exit system under section 7208 of the Intelligence Reform and 
        Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (8 U.S.C. 1365b).
    (b) Restrictions.--None of the funds made available pursuant to 
subsection (a)(2) may be used for the procurement or deployment of 
surveillance towers that have not been--
            (1) tested, and
            (2) accepted,
by the Federal Government to deliver autonomous capabilities.
    (c) Air and Marine Operations.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,234,000,000, to remain 
available until September 30, 2029, for Air and Marine Operations' 
upgrading and procurement of new platforms for rapid air and marine 
response capabilities.
    (d) CBP Vetting Activities.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
available, there is appropriated to the Commissioner of U.S. Customs 
and Border Protection for fiscal year 2025, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $16,000,000, to remain available 
until September 30, 2029, for necessary expenses to support screening, 
vetting activities, and expansion of U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection's criminal history databases.
    (e) Other Efforts to Combat Drug Trafficking to Enhance Border 
Security.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is 
appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security for fiscal year 
2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$500,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for 
enhancing border security and combatting trafficking, including 
fentanyl and its precursor chemicals, at the southwest, northern, and 
maritime borders.
    (f) Commemorations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security for fiscal 
year 2025, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
$1,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2029, for 
commemorating efforts and events related to border security.
    (g) Definition.--In this section, the term ``autonomous'' means 
integrated software and hardware systems that utilize sensors, onboard 
computing, and artificial intelligence to identify items of interest 
that would otherwise be manually identified by U.S. Customs and Border 
Protection personnel.