(a) In General.--For the purpose of the acquisition, sustainment, 
improvement, and operation of United States Coast Guard assets, in 
addition to amounts otherwise made available, there is appropriated to 
the Commandant of the Coast Guard for fiscal year 2025, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available 
until September 30, 2029--
            (1) $571,500,000 for fixed wing aircraft and spare parts, 
        training simulators, support equipment, and program management 
        for such aircraft;
            (2) $1,283,000,000 for rotary wing aircraft and spare 
        parts, training simulators, support equipment, and program 
        management for such aircraft;
            (3) $140,000,000 for long-range unmanned aircraft systems 
        and base stations, support equipment, and program management 
        for such systems;
            (4) $4,300,000,000 for Offshore Patrol Cutters and spare 
        parts and program management for such Cutters;
            (5) $1,000,000,000 for Fast Response Cutters and spare 
        parts and program management for such Cutters;
            (6) $4,300,000,000 for Polar Security Cutters and spare 
        parts and program management for such Cutters;
            (7) $4,978,000,000 for Arctic Security Cutters and domestic 
        icebreakers and spare parts and program management for such 
        Cutters and icebreakers;
            (8) $3,154,500,000 for design, planning, engineering, 
        construction of, and program management for shoreside 
        infrastructure, of which--
                    (A) $400,000,000 is provided for hangers and 
                maintenance and crew facilities for the fixed wing 
                aircraft for which funds are appropriated under 
                paragraph (1) and rotary wing aircraft for which funds 
                are appropriated under paragraph (2);
                    (B) $2,329,500,000 is provided for homeports for 
                the Cutters for which funds are appropriated under 
                paragraphs (4), (5), (6), and (7), National Security 
                Cutters, and other Fast Response Cutters; and
                    (C) $425,000,000 is provided for design, planning, 
                engineering, construction of, and program management 
                for enlisted boot camp barracks, multi-use training 
                centers, and other related facilities;
            (9) $1,300,000,000 for aviation, cutter, shoreside facility 
        depot maintenance, and C5I service maintenance, of which 
        $500,000,000 is provided to acquire, procure, or construct a 
        floating dry dock under subsection (b) and conduct channel 
        dredging necessary to allow Cutters for which funds are 
        appropriated under paragraph (4) and National Security Cutters 
        to be maintained and repaired in such dry dock; and
            (10) $180,000,000 for equipment and services for maritime 
        domain awareness, of which $75,000,000 is provided to contract 
        the services of, acquire, or procure autonomous maritime 
        systems.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Commandant may not acquire, procure, or construct a floating 
        dry dock for the Coast Guard Yard with amounts appropriated 
        under subsection (a).
            (2) Permissible acquisition, procurement, or construction 
        methods.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection and 
        section 1105(a) of title 14, United States Code, the Commandant 
        may, through September 30, 2030--
                    (A) provide for an entity other than the Coast 
                Guard to contract for the acquisition, procurement, or 
                construction of a floating dry dock by contract, 
                purchase, or other agreement;
                    (B) construct a floating dry dock at the Coast 
                Guard Yard; or
                    (C) acquire or procure a commercially available 
                floating dry dock.
            (3) Floating dry dock defined.--In this section, the term 
        ``floating dry dock'' means equipment that is--
                    (A) documented under chapter 121 of title 46, 
                United States Code; and
                    (B) capable of meeting the lifting and maintenance 
                requirements of an Offshore Patrol Cutter or a National 
                Security Cutter.
    (c) Limitation.--Not more than 15 percent of the amounts provided 
in paragraph (9) of subsection (a) shall be available for design, 
planning, and engineering of the facilities described in such 
paragraph.
    (d) Application.--In carrying out acquisitions or procurements for 
which funds are appropriated under subsection (a), sections 1131, 1132, 
and 1133 of title 14, United States Code, shall not apply.
    (e) Entity Other Than the Coast Guard.--Notwithstanding section 
1105(a) of title 14, United States Code, in carrying out acquisition, 
procurement, or construction of Arctic Security Cutters or domestic 
icebreakers for which funds are appropriated under subsection (a)(7), 
the Commandant may provide for an entity other than the Coast Guard to 
contract for such acquisition, procurement, or construction.
    (f) Compliance With Applicable Reporting Requirements.--None of the 
amounts provided in--
            (1) this section may be obligated or expended during any 
        fiscal year in which the Commandant is not compliant with 
        sections 5102 and 5103 (excluding section 5103(e)) of title 14, 
        United States Code; and
            (2) paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) may be 
        obligated or expended until the Commandant provides the report 
        required under section 11217 of the James M. Inhofe National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law 117-
        263) to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
    (g) Notification Requirement.--The Commandant shall notify the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate not less than 1 week prior to taking any 
procurement actions impacting estimated costs or timelines for 
acquisitions or procurements funded with amounts appropriated under 
this section.
    (h) Expenditure Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commandant shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
detailed expenditure plan, including projected project timelines for 
each acquisition and procurement funded under this section and a list 
of project locations to be funded under paragraphs (8) and (9) of 
subsection (a).
    (i) Exception.--If the President authorizes an exception under 
section 1151(b) of title 14, United States Code, for any Coast Guard 
vessel, or the hull or superstructure of such vessel for which funds 
are appropriated under paragraphs (4) through (7) of subsection (a), no 
such funds shall be obligated until the President submits to the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate a written explanation of the circumstances 
requiring such an exception in the national security interest, 
including--
            (1) a confirmation that there are insufficient qualified 
        United States shipyards to meet the national security interest 
        without such exception; and
            (2) actions taken by the President to enable qualified 
        United States shipyards to meet national security requirements 
        prior to the issuance of such an exception.